sim/README.md, before:

Code to run simulation studies where the simulated families have family structures sampled from the HCP cohort. 

- `pp5/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-5BC, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp5_riskmod/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-5BC, while incorporating tumor marker testing as an additional risk modifier. 
- `pp7`: Simulate families (under assumptions of the sub-models nested in PanelPRO-7) and evaluate them using PanelPRO-7, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp11/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp11_extra/`: Simulate an additional 1 million families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp11_riskmod/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, while incorporating tumor marker testing as an additional risk modifier. 

Each sub-directory contains the following files: 
- `fam.R`: Code to simulate 1000 families at a time and run the PanelPRO models. 
- `rscript_fam.job` and`submitJobs_fam.sh`: Shell scripts for running models on the simulated families, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. 
- `diagnostics.sh`: Shell script for obtaining diagnostic metrics, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. 
- `rscript_diagnostics_boot_job`, `submitJobs_diagnostics_boot.sh`, and `combine_diagnostics_boot.sh`: Shell scripts for obtaining diagnostic metrics from 1000 bootstrap samples, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. Note that in the `pp11_extra/` directory, bootstrap samples are taken from an original sample size ranging from 1 million to 2 million in 200,000 increments. 

In addition, `pp5/` and `pp11/` contain the following files: 
- `subset_diagnostics.sh`: Shell script for obtaining diagnostic metrics on a subset of the simulated families of the same size as the HCP cohort, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. 
- `rscript_subset_diagnostics_boot_job`, `submitJobs_subset_diagnostics_boot.sh`, and `combine_subset_diagnostics_boot.sh`: Shell scripts for obtaining diagnostic metrics from 1000 bootstrap samples of the subset of simulated families, for usage on a high performance computing cluster.

Commit message:

Updates based on reviewer comments

sim/README.md, after:

Code to run simulation studies where the simulated families have family structures sampled from the HCP cohort. 

- `pp5/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-5BC, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp5_riskmod/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-5BC, while incorporating tumor marker testing as an additional risk modifier. 
- `pp7`: Simulate families (under assumptions of the sub-models nested in PanelPRO-7) and evaluate them using PanelPRO-7, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp11/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp11_extra/`: Simulate an additional 1 million families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, without incorporating risk modifiers. 
- `pp11_riskmod/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, while incorporating tumor marker testing as an additional risk modifier. 
- `pp11_prs_snp20/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, without incorporating risk modifiers but with an additional PRS calculated for each individual based on an 20 independent SNPs. 
- `pp11_prs_snp40/`: Simulate families and evaluate them using PanelPRO-11, without incorporating risk modifiers but with an additional PRS calculated for each individual based on an 40 independent SNPs.  

Each sub-directory contains the following files: 
- `fam.R`: Code to simulate 1000 families at a time and run the PanelPRO models. 
- `rscript_fam.job` and`submitJobs_fam.sh`: Shell scripts for running models on the simulated families, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. 
- `diagnostics.sh`: Shell script for obtaining diagnostic metrics, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. 
- `rscript_diagnostics_boot_job`, `submitJobs_diagnostics_boot.sh`, and `combine_diagnostics_boot.sh`: Shell scripts for obtaining diagnostic metrics from 1000 bootstrap samples, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. Note that in the `pp11_extra/` directory, bootstrap samples are taken from an original sample size ranging from 1 million to 2 million in 200,000 increments. 

In addition, `pp5/` and `pp11/` contain the following files: 
- `subset_diagnostics.sh`: Shell script for obtaining diagnostic metrics on a subset of the simulated families of the same size as the HCP cohort, for usage on a high performance computing cluster. 
- `rscript_subset_diagnostics_boot_job`, `submitJobs_subset_diagnostics_boot.sh`, and `combine_subset_diagnostics_boot.sh`: Shell scripts for obtaining diagnostic metrics from 1000 bootstrap samples of the subset of simulated families, for usage on a high performance computing cluster.
